## ﻿Summary:

An effective cost management system will involve proper planning, continuous monitoring and efficient tunning to achieve desired results. From this exercise, we have learned how initial cost estimation, monitoring and budgeting can be valuable in controlling our spend on AWS. Nonetheless, it is also worth noting that there are other AWS services that complement the cost management tools we have seen so far, some of which include;

**AWS Organizations;** In-production, it is best practice to create multiple accounts, share services and expenses across these accounts and monitor all activities from a single management account. This both improves cost management and also the security of our AWS infrastructure.

**Compute Optimizer;** This is a service that analyses your AWS resources' configuration and utilization metrics to provide you with rightsizing recommendations for your workload.

**Cost Optimization Hub;** This allows you to easily identify, filter and consolidate cost optimization recommendations within your AWS account. It also helps to quantify and aggregate estimated savings based on these recommendations. To opt-in, you need to enable compute optimizer.

**Cost Anomaly Detection;** It leverages advanced machine learning to identify anomalous spend and root causes, so you can quickly take action. It alerts you when there is a deviation from your regular spend pattern.

**AWS Trusted Advisor;** This is a service that, when enabled, continuously evaluates your AWS environment using best practice checks across the categories of cost optimization, performance, resilience, security, operational excellence and service limits, and recommend actions to remediate any deviations from best practices. However, the cost optimization feature is only available to business and enterprise support customers.

**Stay up to Date;** As cloud technology continue to evolve, AWS occasionally introduce new features to their services which help organizations improve performance, security, operational excellence and maintain cost efficiency.



***Note***: _This exercise concludes the 3-part series. Congratulations! On a successful completion_.


